Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the relational operators in C
So the relation operators are used
to compare two variables. and it will return one
If the comparison or relation is true otherwise it will
be returning zero. now let us see the major relational operators
first we have == which checks if
both left and right
operands are the same. So see an example we have 10==10
So the comparison is true
So it will be returning one and next we have
10==7
Now it is false since 10 is not equal to 7
So the comparison return zero. next relational operator is
!= which is the not equal to
symbol and it checks If the left and right
operands are not equal to each other
So see this example we have 10 not equal to 20
and it will be returning true. And then we have
10 not equal to 20 which will return false Since
it is equal. Next is less than operator
So it checks If the left operand is less
than the right operand so the expression 5<10
will return true and the expression 10 less than 10
will return false next is less than or equal to
operator and it checks
If the left operand is less than or equal to
the right operand
So 10 less than or equal to 10 will return
true since it is equal and 20 less than or
equal to 10 will return false since 20 is not less
than 10 and also it is not equal to 10
Next is a greater than operator and it checks if
the left operand is greater than the right
operand
So 50 > 10 will return true and
5 > 10 will return
False. Next is the greater than or equal to operator
and it checks
If the left operand is greater than or equal to
the right operand so 10 greater than or equal
to 10 will return true since it is equal and
5 >= 10 will return false
since five
is not greater than 10 and it is not equal
to 10 .now see a programme
Here. we have the main function and we're declaring two
integer variables a=5 and b=10
and we have some print functions here
The first print function will print return value of
(%d == %d) is %d
So we have the first %d corresponding to a
the second one corresponding to b and the third one
corresponding to the expression a==b
so
As we discussed this expression a==b
it will be returning one
If the comparison is true otherwise it will be returning
zero
So here five is not equal to ten so third
integer printed here will be zero and the output of
the first print function will be the return value of
5 == 10 is zero
Similarly the next statement will print the return value
5!=10 is one and the next
function will print Return value
5<10 is one since 5<10
and the next function will print return value
5<=10 is one since
five is less than 10 and the next print function will
print return value of 5>10 is 0 since five
is not greater than 10
And finally this function will print the return value of
5>=10 is  0 since 5 is
not greater than 10 and it is not equal to
So that's all and thank you for watching this video